A recovered Punpun walks around Oita Animal Care Center in the city of Oita, on Feb. 21, 2022. (Mainichi/Hayato Jojima)    OITA -- Punpun is a blind, female calico cat at the Oita Animal Care Center in this southwest Japan city, believed to be about 6 years old. She was run over by a car in January 2021 and was on the verge of death, but miraculously survived thanks to the support of many people. A man who tried to help the cat on the scene was also run over by a car himself. At one point he was unconscious and in critical condition, but he, too, recovered.    Soon after being rescued, the cat exhibited angry behavior based on a strong sense of wariness, resulting in her nickname "Punpun," an onomatopoeic description of a state of anger or irritation in Japanese. But now, over a year since the accident that almost killed her, she lives a calm life, surrounded by the center staff. When this reporter visited the center in February 2022, the cat seemed to be completely attached to veterinarians Akiko Egawa, 38, and Mizue Goto, 39.    The feline was first found by a man in his 50s as he was driving along National Route 500 in the Tsurumi district of the prefectural city of Beppu on the morning of Jan. 14, 2021. She had been run over and the man was trying to help her when he was run over himself. According to Oita Prefectural Police, the man was struck by a kei mini car. When Beppu Police Station officers arrived on the scene, they found the man unconscious, and the cat nearby, bleeding from its eyes.    When staff at the Oita Animal Care Center took X-rays of the cat, they found a hole in her right lung. Egawa and Goto did all they could in the intensive care unit, including placing the cat on oxygen.Calico cat Punpun is held by veterinarians Akiko Egawa, left, and Mizue Goto in Oita, on Feb. 21, 2022. (Mainichi/Hayato Jojima)    A month later, the cat had miraculously recovered enough to walk on her own, but her vision never came back. Because she sustained brain damage, she has a habit of walking around in circles in one place. But when she is held by the center staff or is petted, the cat looks happy. She exhibits less of the mannerisms that led the staff to name her Punpun, and has slowly opened up to the staff, so now they call her Pun-chan.    The man, who had suffered a hard blow to his head and was in critical condition, recovered enough to be able to walk with a cane six months later. In October 2021, he visited the center, and when he was updated on Punpun's recovery by the center chief, Hisashi Saiki, he is said to have cried with relief and happiness.    Of the cats that are rescued by the center, it is unlikely that cats with serious illnesses, such as infectious diseases, will survive, or will find new families, so it is not uncommon for them to be put down. There was also a possibility that a cat with the aftereffects of brain damage that needed extra help like Punpun would be put down, but out of consideration for the man who tried to save her, the center decided to raise her. The possibility of having Punpun appear in "Lessons of Life" that the center offers to elementary school children is being considered.    "The man risked his own life to save (Punpun's) life, and then the center took over to do what it could to keep her alive," Saiki said. "I would like many people to learn about Punpun's existence."    The Oita Animal Care Center was established through collaboration between the Oita Prefectural Government and the Oita Municipal Government, and opened in February 2019. It arranges the adoption of dogs and cats that it has at the center and at public health centers in the prefecture, with the aim of reducing euthanasia.The head of the Oita Animal Care Center, Hisashi Saiki, left, looks on at Punpun in the city of Oita, on Feb. 21, 2022. When petted by veterinarians Mizue Goto, right, and Akiko Egawa, who worked to save the cat's life, she looks comfortable. (Mainichi/Hayato Jojima)    In fiscal 2019, 612 dogs and 2,625 cats were brought into the center. Many felines had just been born. In fiscal 2020, a project to spay and neuter stray cats was begun. Moreover, to prevent pet neglect, the center holds classes on how to take care of and train pets so that they can remain as members of families for their whole lives.    The center's efforts appear to have paid off, with the number of dogs and cats that are brought into the center decreasing. In fiscal 2020, it received 534 dogs and 1,580 cats including Punpun. And of these, 190 dogs and 443 cats found new homes. In the following fiscal year, of the 270 dogs and 761 cats that had been brought to the center by the end of January 2022, 121 dogs and 320 cats had found new homes. Euthanasia has gone down from 56.0% in fiscal 2020 to 40.4% in fiscal 2021.    (Japanese original by Hayato Jojima, Kyushu News Department)