Yukio Osuga, president of fabric wholesaler Shibaki Sensho, left, and his wife, Toshie, wearing "Ukraine humanitarian aid masks" are seen in Kiryu, Gunma Prefecture, on March 24, 2022. (Mainichi/Koji Osawa)    KIRYU, Gunma -- A textile wholesale company in this east Japan city is selling "humanitarian aid masks" made of silk in the colors of the Ukrainian flag as part of efforts to support the country following the Russian invasion. A portion of the proceeds will be donated through the Japanese Red Cross Society, and orders are reportedly pouring in from all over Japan.    Toshie Osuga, 63, was distressed by daily news reports of Russia's aggression in Ukraine and wondered if there was anything she could do to help. Yellow and blue silk fabrics were available at the company run by her husband Yukio Osuga, 66, in the Gunma Prefecture city of Kiryu, so she proposed commercializing the product as they already had knowhow in mask manufacturing due to the spread of the coronavirus. The masks are priced at 880 yen (about $7.10) each including tax, of which 200 yen (about $1.60) will be donated.    Sales were brisk when they began at the Kiryu Textile Memorial Hall and two other locations in the city on March 8. Meanwhile, the company says it can only make a maximum of 50 of the items a day because most of the process, such as cutting and sewing fabrics together, is done by hand. According to Yukio, inquiries have come in from all over Japan, and although they have already manufactured some 400 of the masks, they have received additional reservations for about the same number, and production has not been able to keep up with demand.    Yukio commented, "The masks can be used repeatedly as long as they are washed by hand," and expressed his wish that "the situation where women and children are being hurt will end as soon as possible."    For inquiries about the masks, contact the company at 0277-22-5615 (in Japanese).    (Japanese original by Koji Osawa, Kiryu Local Bureau)