Mie Nagasawa, center left, and her husband Evgeni Petrenko perform in "Sleeping Beauty" together. (C) Aleksandr Putrov    TOKOROZAWA, Saitama -- The NBA Ballet Company in this city north of Tokyo has decided to hire Ukrainian ballet dancer Evgeni Petrenko, who came to Japan after barely escaping Russia's invasion of Ukraine.    Reportedly even artists are taking up arms to serve in the war in Ukraine, and a concerned Koichi Kubo, the company's artistic director, made the decision quickly "as part of support."    Petrenko, 28, grew up in Ukraine's capital Kyiv and is a member of the Kyiv Classic Ballet. His wife Mie Nagasawa is also a ballet dancer, and the two came to Japan with their 1-year-old son. "I didn't think I would end up job hunting overseas, but I'm full of gratitude to everyone in Japan. I would like to perform dances to show the spirit of my home country, which is fighting for freedom," he said.Mie Nagasawa and her husband perform the "Tango" choreographed by Artem Chigvintsev together. (C) Aleksandr Putrov    From the start of February, when the couple was touring in Europe, Japanese embassy officials repeatedly recommended they evacuate. They came to Japan on Feb. 13 to leave their son in the care of Nagasawa's parents residing in Saitama Prefecture. Though the two initially planned to return to Kyiv, their schedule was canceled as Russia began invading Ukraine on Feb. 24.    Nagasawa said, "I was only going to evacuate my child just in case something happened." But Petrenko explained, "The relationship with Russia has always been tense, even in a historical sense. Somewhere in my mind I knew anything could happen." Although he left household goods and other belongings in Ukraine, Petrenko chose to settle down and perform in his wife's homeland.    He described Ukraine as having an "artistic spirit." Two years ago, when theaters were temporarily closed over the spread of the coronavirus, Ukrainians had yearned for their reopening. The couple, who have devoted themselves to dancing since childhood, said they had thought the situation couldn't get any worse after pandemic restrictions were imposed, but realized they were wrong.Husband and wife Evgeni Petrenko, left, and Mie Nagasawa, who evacuated from Kyiv, are seen at the NBA Ballet Company in the city of Tokorozawa, Saitama Prefecture, on March 28, 2022. (Mainichi/Kishiko Saito)    Petrenko says that to the same extent they pursue art, the people of Ukraine seek freedom and are willing to fight to protect their homeland. He showed an image of the military organization Ukrainian Cossacks on his smartphone, and said, "Our thoughts are similar to those of samurai. They look similar too, right?"    But conversely to Ukraine, art is considered "nonessential and nonurgent" in Japan under the pandemic and has little public assistance. Though it will be difficult for Petrenko to become an independent dancer here, he is hopeful after "painfully realizing the happiness of being able to dance."    Nagasawa is in the same ballet company as her husband, and has performed for many years as a principal, the highest-ranking dancer. As a teenager, she studied abroad at the prestigious Vaganova Ballet Academy in St. Petersburg, Russia. After working at the Donetsk Ballet company in Ukraine, she moved to Kyiv.This screenshot from the Donetsk Ballet company's social media account shows ballet dancers forming the letter "Z" in an image spreading online.    Russia recognized a breakaway region in Donetsk as independent on Feb. 21, and Russian President Vladimir Putin's administration has pushed propaganda to enhance national prestige, by having ballet dancers form the letter "Z," symbolizing separation, and "V" for victory, and spreading such photos on social media.    Nagasawa expressed shock over the developments, saying, "I have many friends in Russia and Donetsk, and I still contact them. I can't believe ballet is being used politically like this, separating my friends." Her only wish is to see "peace is returned (to Ukraine), and a world where everyone can enjoy art from the bottom of their hearts."    Petrenko will appear in the "Little Mermaid," choreographed by Lynne Taylor-Corbett, at Marquee Hall in Tokorozawa Civic Cultural Centre on May 28. For inquiries regarding the show, contact the center at 04-2998-7777 (in Japanese).    (Japanese original by Kishiko Saito, Cultural News Department)