Ikujihana Lighthouse, where the new emergency device has recently been installed, is seen in Kurobe, Toyama Prefecture. (Photo courtesy of the 9th Regional Coast Guard Headquarters)    TOYAMA -- A lighthouse in Kurobe, Toyama Prefecture, on the Sea of Japan coast is now also a fully functional tsunami evacuation shelter, and has a new system allowing anyone to unlock it when needed.    The 9th Regional Coast Guard Headquarters, based in the city of Niigata, has installed a device that automatically opens the box storing the key for the Ikujihana Lighthouse door when it receives a signal from the emergency warning broadcast system, which automatically turns on compatible radios and TVs in time of emergency. This is the first installation of such a device in a lighthouse in Japan.    The lighthouse has 123 steps inside, and can temporarily accommodate 80 to 90 people, who are most likely to be locals and anglers.    A tsunami advisory was recently issued for the Pacific coastal areas of Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures in northeastern Japan after a strong earthquake with a maximum intensity of an upper 6 on the Japanese 7-point seismic scale struck the region on March 16. A coast guard headquarters representative said, "We hope people will be reminded of tsunami disaster prevention by looking at the lighthouse."The device that automatically opens the box storing the Ikujihana Lighthouse door key is seen in Kurobe, Toyama Prefecture. (Photo courtesy of the 9th Regional Coast Guard Headquarters)    The reinforced concrete Ikujihana Lighthouse is about 27 meters tall, with a foundation around 4 meters above sea level. The door is usually locked.    According to the coast guard headquarters, when the new device opens the box with the key inside, someone such as a local resident can take it out and unlock the door so that people can evacuate into the lighthouse. However, there are no emergency supplies in the building, as it is only intended to be a temporary shelter.    The Kurobe Municipal Government and the Fushiki Coast Guard Office in 2017 sealed an agreement about the use of shelters in times of disaster such as tsunami. They decided to use Ikujihana Lighthouse as a shelter when a tsunami strikes.    The coast guard headquarters deposited the lighthouse door key with a nearby company, but it was feared that the person in charge of storing it might be away or injured at the time of a disaster. Therefore, they developed the new system. They apparently plan to install the same device at Hekurajima Lighthouse in the Ishikawa Prefecture city of Wajima in fiscal 2022.    While locals tend to believe that tsunami rarely strike Toyama Prefecture, records show that four people were killed in a tsunami at Yokata beach in the present-day prefectural capital city of Toyama in the wake of the 1858 Hietsu earthquake.    (Japanese original by Ikuko Aoyama, Toyama Bureau)