TOKYO -- Among the cultural facilities of Waseda University in the capital's Shinjuku Ward is a building that boasts a striking spatial composition and a huge painting by Japanese master artists.The characteristic spatial composition of chalky plaster columns and a compartment ceiling is seen in the first-floor hall of Waseda University's Building No. 2 in Tokyo's Shinjuku Ward on Feb. 24, 2022. (Mainichi/Akihiro Ogomori) =Click/tap photo for more images.    Construction of Building No. 2 was completed two years after the 1923 Great Kanto Earthquake. Designers of the high-strength reinforced concrete structure include Tachu Naito, who is referred to as the father of earthquake-proof designs and the architect who designed the capital's symbolic Tokyo Tower, as well as Kenji Imai and Kinichi Kiriyama.    The site was used as the university library until 1991, and has been refurbished to house the Aizu Museum -- which celebrates artworks by Aizu Yaichi (1881-1956), the university's alumnus as well as an Eastern art historian, poet and calligrapher -- and the S. Takata Memorial Research Library -- which commemorates Takata Sanae (1860-1938), one of the four founding figures of the university.    Elements including a compartment ceiling with dark brown tinged green frames and chalky plaster columns create an impressive spatial composition in the first-floor hall. On the staircase connecting the hall and the second floor is an epic Japanese painting titled "Meian" (Light and Dark) by masters Taikan Yokoyama (1868-1958) and Kanzan Shimomura (1873-1930), which is limitedly shown. In the painting, the sun rising from clouds is depicted on a seamless handmade "washi" Japanese paper that is about 4.5 meters in diameter. Characteristic designs can also be seen under the handrails of the second-floor hall.    In the former reading room, currently a permanent and rotating large exhibit room, characteristic arches of the vault create a gentle curve on the ceiling. According to Taisei Corp., which did the preservation and repair work, the ceiling is about 10 meters high. The spacious room provides a relaxing atmosphere for visitors.    (Japanese original by Akihiro Ogomori, Photo and Video Center)The vaulted ceiling of the one-time reading room at Waseda University's former library is seen in Tokyo's Shinjuku Ward on Feb. 24, 2022. (Mainichi/Akihiro Ogomori) =Click/tap photo for more images.    * * *    The Japanese version of this article was originally published on March 20, 2022.    * * *    This series explores Japan's architectural wonders and secrets of yesteryear. Read more Retro Japan articles here.Retro Japan in Photos: Waseda Univ.'s 1925 building maintains striking spatial composition