Oleg Pashkowski, left, and Vadym Bezvuliak are seen during an interview with the Mainichi Shimbun at Huis Ten Bosch in Sasebo, Nagasaki Prefecture, on March 7, 2022. (Mainichi/Atsuki Nagayama)    SASEBO, Nagasaki -- With March 24 marking a month since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, a Ukrainian vocal duo is performing daily at the Huis Ten Bosch theme park in this southwestern Japan city with thoughts for their family members back home and prayers for peace.Oleg Pashkowski, left, and Vadym Bezvuliak are seen holding folded paper cranes sent to them by fans at Huis Ten Bosch in Sasebo, Nagasaki Prefecture, on March 7, 2022. (Mainichi/Atsuki Nakayama)    Vadym Bezvuliak, 34, and Oleg Pashkowski, 35, members of the group Maximum, are from Vinnytsia, an oblast located about 200 kilometers southwest of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv. They met in college at the age of 18, and embarked on a professional career in music. Their band gained popularity after appearing in an TV auditioning show.    When the situation in their country became unstable in 2014 due to Russia's unilateral annexation of Crimea, the two were invited by Huis Ten Bosch, which had noticed their talent, and they came to Japan to perform onstage.    In early March, the two could be seen at the theme park, singing The Beatles' "Let It Be," Leonard Cohen's "Hallelujah," and other songs with much emotion. Two days prior to their performance, Russia had bombed their hometown for the first time.    Bezvuliak, who has a son in Ukraine, expressed anger about what he called the outrageous situation in which innocent people living in peace are being killed, and voiced his sense of powerlessness from not being able do anything for his family.    Pashkowski, who left his parents in Ukraine to come to Japan, told the Mainichi Shimbun it has become his routine to ask his family if they are still alive every morning and night via social media and other means. He says he wants to scream for forgiveness for living in a peaceful country while everyone else in Ukraine is living under huge pressure.    Russian President Vladimir Putin continues to threaten Ukraine and the West, even suggesting the use of nuclear weapons. Pashkowski, who has visited the Nagasaki Atomic Bomb Museum in the southwestern Japan city of Nagasaki multiple times, described Putin's behavior as insane, and fumed that Putin should be brought to the atomic bomb museum and be shown the price humanity paid for the big mistake of using such weapons    As Russia's military invasion continues, the circle of support for Ukraine is expanding in Japan. The two say they have received letters of support and folded paper cranes expressing wishes for peace in Ukraine from fans. Bezvuliak says he wants to thank the fans and stressed that they will never forget the kindness they received.    John Lennon's "Imagine," which asks listeners to imagine a world at peace where there's "nothing to kill or die for," is being sung all over the world now, with hopes for peace in Ukraine. Pashkowski says this it is the perfect time to sing the song, and that he will practice it. Believing that music can be a tool for peace, the two will continue to sing onstage.    (Japanese original by Atsuki Nakayama, Nagasaki Bureau)