Susumu Kayaki, the mayor of Yasu, Shiga Prefecture, denies he harassed two city government officials at a regular news conference on March 28, 2022. (Mainichi/Yuko Murase)    YASU, Shiga -- The mayor of this western Japan city faces an investigation over alleged power harassment against two senior officials at the municipal government.    The two officials revealed at a March 28 news conference at the city hall that they had requested the municipal government's general affairs department to conduct an investigation, claiming that they had been subject to harassment including verbal abuse by Mayor Susumu Kayaki, 65. While the mayor denied the allegations against him at a regular news conference the same day, the municipal government intends to swiftly set up a third-party panel and investigate the details.    The two manager-level employees in their 50s work at a department involved in maintenance and operation of a municipal hospital. According to the officials, the mayor yelled at them at the city assembly chamber in the presence of assembly members and other government employees after an assembly meeting ended on March 9. Kayaki apparently shouted at them over their answers to questions about medical policies, such as, "Stop fooling around! We discussed this further, and you didn't speak about that (at the assembly)." and, "You, too!"    One of the officials claimed that in May 2021 Kayaki threw a pencil at his own desk and told the official, "Don't enter the mayor's office without a good idea." When they had a guest in September, he was apparently introduced by the mayor as a "stubborn turd." He said that he is currently suffering insomnia.    Kayaki countered at the news conference, saying, "I scolded them for about 10 seconds because I wanted them to answer accurately in an assembly meeting, but I didn't yell." He added, "I threw a pencil once, but I quickly apologized. I don't recall everything, but I didn't say 'turd.'" The mayor believes that his behavior was not power harassment.    (Japanese original by Yuko Murase, Omihachiman Local Bureau)