TOKYO -- East Japan Railway Co. (JR East) workers have begun removing a Tohoku Shinkansen bullet train that derailed in the northeastern Japan city of Shiroishi, Miyagi Prefecture, following a strong earthquake on March 16.Two cars of a Tohoku Shinkansen bullet train that derailed in Shiroishi, Miyagi Prefecture, following a large earthquake on March 16, are seen getting towed toward Shiroishizao Station in this photo taken from a Mainichi Shimbun helicopter on March 27, 2022. (Mainichi)    Sixteen of the 17 cars that made up the Yamabiko No. 223 train, which had departed Tokyo Station and was bound for Sendai Station, derailed about 2 kilometers short of Shiroishizao Station in Miyagi Prefecture late at night on March 16 following the large tremor centered in Miyagi and neighboring Fukushima prefectures, which registered a maximum intensity of upper 6 on the Japanese 7-point seismic scale.    JR East started to jack up the derailed carriages on March 20 to put them back on the rails in sequence starting from the first car, and had completed the work on 12 cars by March 27. The company towed the first four cars using a service vehicle to Shiroishizao Station on March 27. The operator plans to move the rest of the cars after placing them back onto the rails using a crane by around April 2. JR East said that it will then move the cars to a maintenance center in the town of Rifu in Miyagi Prefecture.Two cars of a Tohoku Shinkansen bullet train that derailed in Shiroishi, Miyagi Prefecture, following a large earthquake on March 16, are seen getting towed toward Shiroishizao Station in this photo taken on March 27, 2022, provided by East Japan Railway Co.     Tohoku Shinkansen bullet train operations have been suspended between Koriyama Station in Fukushima Prefecture and Ichinoseki Station in Iwate Prefecture since March 27. JR East intends to resume services between Koriyama and Fukushima stations around April 2, and Sendai and Ichinoseki stations around April 4. It apparently aims to fully resume shinkansen services on the route around April 20.    (Japanese original by Shotaro Kinoshita, Tokyo City News Department)